Hi everyone! Many of you may have heard that there are some big changes coming regarding Digital Collections at the Library. Our current system is built on Fedora, an open source digital object repository system. It’s name is actually an acronym for Flexible, Extensible, Digital Object Repository Architecture. Currently, we are on Fedora v. 2. However, we are moving to adopt Fedora4, which is vastly different than 2 and is more of an overhaul than a simple migration. So that’s what Peter and I are going to talk a little about today. But to give some context, I’m going to start with a little background on some aspects of Fedora4.So, first, some background on linked data. We hear a lot about linked data these day. Libraries are realizing the importance of linked data and structuring our data in a more shareable, linkable, useful ways. For some additional context, Tim Berners-Lee gives us the four rules of linked data. First, use URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers) as names for things. So in the sample there you can see that instead of a name, in linked data you could use a URI, such as one from the Library of Congress Name Authority File.The second rule is to use HTTP URIs so that the URIs resolve to a site where people can look up the name/subject/concept/etc.The third rule is to provide useful information when someone looks up a URI. Here we see, barely, an example of RDF output that can be returned when looking up a URI.Finally, we should include links to other URIs, so that users can discover even more things. Links out to other authorities or other related objects.In those last two slides, some RDF snuck in there in the examples, so while we’re at it, I’ll say a few words about RDF, or Resource Description Framework. RDF is a way to model data, and, specifically, is particularly useful for modeling metadata for web resources (or, you know, linked data). A word of caution that RDF is a framework, and not a syntax. Those come later. The framework is one of subject/predicate/object (also called a triple). That structure can be represented in a variety of syntaxes<Peter’s stuff/>So what does all this about linked data and RDF mean for us? Well Fedora 4 is an implementation of the linked data platform, and our metadata, in order to take advantage of this, will need to be expressed in RDF. RDF is how we will communicate with Fedora4.It also means that we may have to start rethinking, adapting old workflows and create new workflows to best adhere to the rules of linked data. Going forward, can we do more to provide URIs for better interlinking.So now, on to a live demo. Here I have a turtle document. I’m going to go through all the CRUD motions with this thing (Create, Read, Update, Delete). 